Now, in terms of tools which you use, is the
computer the most important development? It's
not for me. I mean, I think it is a pretty important
development. No, as far as the, gosh, you know, I
don't have that many tools. I know.
I
think
the board instrumentation is probably the most
important thing as far as it's been added to the
oceanographic.
They give us, because the current meter has given
us a kind of instrument, a kind of measurement,
which is very different from what we had before.
The CTDs and STDs and so forth give us very much more
detail about the vertical distribution of
properties and the boundaries to go from mass to
mass casts. But it's just better information of
the same kind, whereas the current meter really
gives
I think
that's about the most important thing is that.
Those are not my tools, those are tools that
other people have developed. Besides your own
work, although it's very difficult to separate
this way, what was the most amazing innovation in
oceanography during your period? What sort of
idea struck you? Oh, that's kind of an interesting
question. I wonder what that answer could be to
that. Something that I could, you know, was really
surprised
by.
Oh
gosh, I don't know. I suppose, I suppose
the, oh I think I know the most, the thing that
surprised me the most was the, and it surprised me
very early on, was the long distance sound
transmission in the so far channel. I
went
with Yui and some others down to London, and they
had some ships out far away,
thousands of miles away, and we had radio in
contact with them. They dropped a charge. I think
they dropped a charge somewhere off Brazil, one
block at the end of the South Channel. We heard
for each ship,
as they heard the sound go by, and we were sitting
there at night, you know, on this radio shack in New
London, where the Atlantis would report in, and
the Lero or something, I can't remember the names
of it, the Jetson and so forth, the different ships
would report in, and they just heard the sound
going by. There were long periods in between, of
course, 20 minutes or something like that. The
idea that sound could go so slowly, you could hear
it, just
a small sound at a long distance. That was really
something which was just . Your future, what do you
intend to do next? Well, I guess I'm going to I try to
play some
limited role in this equatorial experiment. And
that's going to be essentially trying to get some
long time series measures at the equator from the a
small outfit, a small ship
based
on a planet like Ocean Island or the Gills. Think
about doing that for the next two or three years.
And I think that's a major thing I'd like to do. And I
think if I can, I'd kind of like to organize
a set of density measurements in the center of the
subtropical gyro of the Atlantic Ocean. Using
cruises of opportunity, when ships go through and
they go across the North Atlantic Ocean to get some
systematic station data to look at angular
fluctuations and so forth on the central landing
gyre. It's kind of a place which interests me
recently. And I think if I consciously try to
figure out how to set up a program like that, then it
won't cost very much that ships that are going
across back and forth anyway, if I keep aware of
their schedules and so forth, somehow I can get 20
or 30 hydrographic stations on each of those
cruises that goes across, and maybe divert the
line of the cruise a little bit.
Six
years projected is a great deal for academicians.
Our minds change so quickly. Yeah, I know they do,
but I think those are the two things that I think
could be associated with some
useful kind of way. There were two backup
questions I wanted to pick up very quickly that I
missed. What were your parents' occupations? My
father was a chemist. in
several different letter-making concerns in the
United States this week and later on. And my mother
was a housewife first, and she was kind of a public
relations person, fundraiser for hospitals. And
at the end of her life, she was working mostly
trying to raise money for hospitals. Were you
always directed towards the sciences? Well, I was
more
influenced
by my grandfather, I think. He was a lawyer, but I
had, yeah, I've always wanted to be a lawyer. I was
always a scientist. Chemistry, science,
astronomy, electrical things. All my high school
things.
The afternoons
would be, many afternoons would be spent by going
down Lower Manhattan and looking at the chemical
supply house windows and seeing if they had some
Florence flasks that they were selling off in a
sale or something, buying for 15 cents or
something, right? There was a canvasser of
scientific good stores. They almost always had
St. Martin County. We had a summer program, Dusty
Chemical Company. Where did you do your
undergraduate
training? Yeah, I was doing my undergraduate
training. Well, yeah. Before that, it was the
Freeport High School on Long Island.
Before that, in Townsend Harris, Manhattan. The
Brooklyn Public School, 217. And never varied all
this time from scientific orientation. Yeah, I
always wanted to be a scientist. I had chemical
companies trying to make chemistry sets for kids
and sell them for 25 cents, you know, things like
that. Fourth grade. I was very strong in chemistry
for a long time.
I always wanted to go into science. When I went to
Yale, we had some kind of diagnostic achievement
test or something.
And after I took those tests, they counseled me.
the basis of those tests, but it was very basically
unwise for me
to go into science. And he gave me some good
arguments, you see. I mean, you know, I really am
kind of weak on certain kinds of formal,
quantitative ways of thinking. Mathematics
doesn't come as easily to me as it does to other
people. Abstract thinking doesn't. I can see
that, and I
recognize
that very clearly. But, so
he wanted me to go into law, he said. And, well,
gosh, no, I just didn't want to, that was all. So, I
mean, I could see, as the years went on, that it had
some serious difficulties, really, to
basically, Basically, certain kinds of things I
really can't do very well. Take all that terrible
business in thermodynamics, where you're
constantly taking different partial
derivatives of things with respect to other
things. And the formal manipulations of
thermodynamics You have some body of gas, which
you're squeezing, and heating, and cooling, and
pressing, and expanding in constants, and this
and constant that, and so forth. I try to vision.
I'm very sure that the people who are good at that
don't really think in very concrete terms. I think
they think in very formal terms. And I find myself
absolutely
unable to depart on an intellectual tour very far,
which goes away from some very clear concrete
terms. And so So I can understand things, simple
mechanics and so forth, and do calculations in it.
But when it gets formal or abstract, then it
becomes quite difficult for me. If you look at
mechanics, I'm probably wrong about this, but if
you look at mechanics, probably the part of
mechanics which is formulated most nearly to
thermodynamics, for example, in some sense, is
the use of Hamiltonians in setting up a mechanical
problem. It
just seems so absolutely, it seems so absolutely,
crazily abstract to set up a mechanical problem in
that formulation.
But I just, I just can't do it. And I know to other
people it's just an alternate means of problem
solving which is self-evident and obvious to them
as what looked to me like a straightforward way to
do it. So I think, I think those tests were right,
you know, really. But these people really, people
really The motivation
sort
of counts too, but if you want to do something, you
start to move on to do what you want to do, I think. I
maybe could have had quite a lot of fun out of it.
Anything you'd like to add
to the table? Well, I don't think so.
Any advice you'd like to give to young
oceanographers?
I don't really think it's possible because the
Things have changed so much over a 30-year period
that I wouldn't feel confident to give people
advice as to what kind of a satisfactory life that
they... I haven't tried to influence my children,
for example, to be interested in science or
oceanography. particularly,
I think that it's not at all
clear that it would be a nice thing for them to do. I
guess what I would, I guess
my only, I wouldn't give advice, but the wish
that I would have for people is that they could find
some intellectual area in the world that was
pretty much underdeveloped.
And they could, by some lucky chance, find some
place like that and develop some structure there.
Now, I don't suppose it is oceanography. There are
probably areas of knowledge and science, and even
in oceanography, which are sufficiently
undeveloped so that those names aren't on a map
yet. We don't know what those areas are, and if a
person is lucky enough to find some kind knowledge
space like that, so he can have the excitement and
fun of poking around there first of all by himself,
then I should think he could have
a fun intellectual experience a little bit
similar to the one that I've been able to have. But,
of course, You can enter into a, it's like, you
know, it's like getting into a, in the virgin
forest kind of period of things. It would still be
very exciting, I suppose, to,
in the highly evolved municipal stage, still find
interesting things to do. But when you have the
area of science a little bit all to yourself, and
you can sort of ask the first questions, that is
kind of fun. I would recommend that they would have
some fun if they can find a place to be a pioneer, and
they'd have some
fun being a pioneer. I don't know. I think it must be
partly luck when you find those places. And
certainly places which were pioneering places
aren't after a while. The first pioneers have gone
through. That's right. They've messed it all up.
No longer virgin timber. Now it's cut over. That's
right. It's all messed
up. It's all cut over and built up or something.
That's not advice. It's just, I guess it's advice.
But it's not advice. It doesn't give you any
indication as to how to implement it, where to
look.
But I think there's an opportunity to buy around
everywhere.